# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 2: git, branching, HTML, APIs

---

# Agenda

- Review
- Continue practice with git
- Intro to branching
- Branching Exercise
- Lunch Break
- Intro to HTML
- Reading APIs
- HTML Exercise

---

# Review

1. What is the terminal?
2. Why do we use the terminal?
3. What are some linux commands?
4. What is *relative pathing*?
5. What is git?
6. Why do we use git?
7. What is a standard git workflow?

---

# Commit Your Own Adventure
## let's play a game

---

# git continued - feature branches

Feature branches are generally used when you want to make extensive edits / additions / deletions to the master code.

Feature branches should be **limited in scope** to reduce errors, increase ease to find bugs, and keep your team consistently up to date. Some examples of feature branches

- upload_videos
- user_defined_themes
- phone_number_validation

---

# git branch workflow

```
git checkout master
git checkout -b phone_number_verification
// make edits
// for each edit:
  git add -A
  git commit -m "explanation of changes"
  git push

// when feature is complete
git checkout master
// create pull request on Github
```

---

# git branch tips

`git branch` is your friend. It acts much like `git status`.

You might need to use the `--set-upstream` flag with `git push` for new branches. More generally, pay attention to error and status messages!

There is an alternative way to merge branches from the terminal. However, pull requests via Github are an industry standard and also offer other great features.

---

# Live Demo of using feature branches

---

# Committedly Stupid
## let's play a game
