# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 7: Working Session, Javascript Preparation

---

# Agenda

- Review
- Working Session
- Setting Up JS Environment
- Lunch
- Working Session 2
- Javascript

---

# Review

- What are libraries?
- Why do we use them?
- What is Material Design?
- Why do we use it?
- What does a project manager do?
- Why is a project manager sometimes needed?

---

# Quick Note about Project Management

- Takes on a role similar to **facilitator** or **coordinator**
- Not a final decision maker
- Makes sure each team member has everything they need to succeed

---

# Working Session

---

# Intro to Javascript

Javascript (JS) is a programming language initially invented to easily add interactivity to websites. While it is the most advanced language we've looked at so far, it is still considered a relatively weak language because:

1. It was designed for "informal programmers and designers" to pick up and use.
2. It was designed to be *fail-safe* language, meaning that if errors popped up, it tries its best to still deliver a good experience in the browser. This means that is easy to ignore errors, to not even notice errors, and to code in suboptimal ways.

---

# NodeJS (node)

JS became very popular, partially because of its ease of use. This has lead to several spinoffs, notably NodeJS, which is a way to take Javascript out of the browser. It has much of the same functionality but opens up other things like reading and writing to the file system.

90% of what you can do in JS, you can do in Node  
90% of what you can do in Node, you can do in JS

---

# Node Package Manager (NPM)

Alongside NodeJS, there is a tool called NPM that let's us easily manage and import libraries. It's easy to use and the standard.

---

# Installation!

---

# Node Version Manager (NVM)

Node has been around for a while and there many different versions. Packages (**libraries**) might not be updated for a particular version of node. When you are working on several different projects, you might need to switch between different node versions. This is easily accomplished through NVM.

---

# Yarn

An alternative to NPM (Node Package Manager) is Yarn. It was developed by Facebook to address performance and security issues of NPM at the time. The differences are niche and the tools are mostly the same.

Although I prefer Yarn.

---

# Installation 2

---

# Lunch
