# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 6: Project Management, Libraries, Material UI, Wireframes

---

# Agenda

- Review
- Libraries
- Material UI
- Wireframes
- Project Management
- Lunch
- Culmination Project

---

# Review

- What is forking a repo?
- Why do we do it?
- What is Flexbox?
- Why was it invented?

---

# Libraries

*Coders are lazy*

If someone has already developed a good solution to a problem, we want to use that instead of write our own. This is achieved through *libraries*, which are packages of code specifically designed for distribution and adoption. Most libraries are free and open source, although some are proprietary. The concept of libraries isn't specific to web development and can be found under almost any language (perhaps under a different name). In web development, we rely on adding these tags to `<head>` tag:

`<link rel="stylesheet" href="where/it/is" />`  
`<script src="where/it/is"></script>`

---

# Material Design and Materialize CSS

Google developed and released a set of design guidelines for its Android operating system in 2014 called Material Design. This later has taken over much of their product line. It's well defined, recognizable, and looks great. We'll be using the Material Design aesthetic for this bootcamp. We'll do this by loading an external CSS file via a CDN:

`<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/materialize/1.0.0/css/materialize.min.css">`

*This is also the syntax for using an external CSS file instead of embedding a `<style></style>`*

---

# Quick Tutorial on Materialize

The CSS framework we'll be using today and for the next project is MaterializeCSS. It is a pure CSS implementation of Material UI, a ReactJS framework that we'll be using for our capstone projects. Material Design is a set of principles developed by Google that gives all their products a cohesive, consistent, rich UI/UX experience.

- Material Design: [https://material.io/](https://material.io/)
- Materialize CSS: [https://materializecss.com/grid.html](https://materializecss.com/grid.html)

Materialize heavily relies on CSS classes to give developers a relatively painless way to apply their well calculated CSS rule sets. 

---

# Live Code Along

---

# Wireframes

---

# Project Management

With so many moving parts, it's important to keep everyone on the team coordinated.

- Everyone could be working on different parts that rely on each other.
- Emergencies could happen.
- New developments or project requirements could happen.

This is handled by a *project manager*.

---

# Project Manager

- Checks in with all team members to get progress updates
- Reviews and approves Pull Requests
- Reviews and assigns GitHub Issues
- Updates task priorities
- *Not* a boss but a coordinator

---

# Stand Up Meetings

A common event among coding teams is a stand up meeting. All hands are on deck and everyone gives a brief update on:

- What they accomplished
- What they are working on
- What are their next steps
- Any obstacles they are running into

This allows the project manager to make adjustments as needed. Some teams have a *daily standup* while others may do standups every other day, every week, etc.

---

# Role Play
## What does a stand up meeting look like?

---

# Lunch

---

# 99 Ways of Looking at CS
## Culmination Project
