# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 5: CSS, Flex, Project Management

---

# Agenda

- Review
- Forking
- CSS Project
- Flexbox
- CSS Project Continued
- Lunch
- Project Management
- Culmination Project

---

# Review

- What is CSS?
- Why do we use it?
- What is the syntax for a CSS Rule?
- What is a key-value pair?
- What is a CSS Selector?
- What are some examples of CSS Selectors?

---

# Forking Repos

Sometimes, you will want to make a significant departure from a project's code base, you can do a `fork`. It is kind of like branching but much more severe. Chances are that you are not looking to merge your changes back into the original code base.

Let's fork!

---

# See CSS
## Intro to collaborative coding

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Breakout Rooms

---

# Layouts with CSS

CSS is incredibly powerful and we have only been using a small fraction of it. Another key feature is the ability to define *layouts* or how elements sit above/below and next to each other. Layouts are controlled by the `display` property and there are 3 major values:

- `block`: the element will take up the full width of the page and nothing can sit next to it
- `inline`: the element will take up only as much width as it needs and will allow others to sit next to it
- `inline-block`: a combination of the two where an element can take up a variable amount of width and will allow other elements to sit next to it

Tags have their own default values for `display`; notable, all `<h#>` tags are `block` and all `<a>` tags are `inline`.

---

# Advanced Layouts

For large and complex projects, it can be unwieldy to manage layouts using just these 3 property values. We want to take advantage of the browser to intelligently handle spacing and layout for us.

Introducing *flexbox*

---

# Flexbox

- Relies on the parent-child hierarchy
- Parent has `display: flex` rule
- Parent and children use other CSS rules to control how they are layed out
- [https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Reference

CSS is also exhaustive, like HTML. Here is a full guide for reference:

[https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_intro.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_intro.asp)

---

# Lunch

---

# Project Management

With so many moving parts, it's important to keep everyone on the team coordinated.

- Everyone could be working on different parts that rely on each other.
- Emergencies could happen.
- New developments or project requirements could happen.

This is handled by a *project manager*.

---

# Project Manager

- Checks in with all team members to get progress updates
- Reviews and approves Pull Requests
- Reviews and assigns GitHub Issues
- Updates task priorities
- *Not* a boss but a coordinator

---

# Stand Up Meetings

A common event among coding teams is a stand up meeting. All hands are on deck and everyone gives a brief update on:

- What they accomplished
- What they are working on
- What are their next steps
- Any obstacles they are running into

This allows the project manager to make adjustments as needed. Some teams have a *daily standup* while others may do standups every other day, every week, etc.

---

# Role Play
## What does a stand up meeting look like?
