# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 1: Intros, Assessment, The Terminal, git

---

# Schedule
- Intros and Icebreaker
- Bootcamp Policies and Expectations
- Assessment
- Lunch Break
- Terminal Crash Course
- git
- git exercises

---

# Intro to TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter

- Prep for the myriad positions
- Survey and Specialization
- 

---

# Skillsets Covered

- React / Web Development
- UI/UX Design
- Project Management
- Data Management
- QA Workflow
- Continuous Integration

---

# Instructional Staff Intros

---

# Now let's get to know each other!
## poll.ly game

---

# Bootcamp Policies

To be considered active in this bootcamp, you must:

- Have at least 90% attendance (the more the better). Arriving late / leaving early counts toward this.
- All mini projects must be submitted via git and Airtable on time
- You must contribute equitably to all team projects, as shown by git contributions
- You must regularly have access to a computer to code
- All code contributions must be originally yours; no plagiarism

---

# Resources

- All slides will be available to you via git
- TAs will host evening tutoring sessions
- You can collaborate your peers on slack
- You can chat with the instructional staff on slack

---

# Assessment

---

# Lunch

---

# The Terminal

- **What**
  - a non graphical way to interact with and control a computer
  - done entirely with your keyboard
  - goes by other names like the command line, bash, and shell.
- **Why**
  - often more powerful options available
  - less resource intensive
  - faster *
- **How**

---

# Common Terminal Commands

- cd - change directory
- ls - list files in current directory
- pwd - present working directory
- cp - copy
- mv - move
- rm - remove
- mkdir - make directory
- rmdir - remove directory

---

# git

---

# What is it?

**a version control system**

git creates an exhaustive edit history for each file in your project, allowing you to retain different versions, revert to older versions, and much more.

**a code collaboration system**

git creates local copies of the project on your machine and intelligently sends your changes to a master repository or storehouse of code. you can also automagically receive code changes from other teammates in a (usually) frictionless way.

---

# Why should I learn it?

- Ubiquitous in the world, from startup to enterprise level
- Github often acts as your portfolio
- Easiest way to collaborate on large projects
- Can rollback and track changes

---

# git examples

---

# common git commands 1/2

- `git status`  
shows you changes needed to be saved, pushed, pulled, etc
- `git add [file or option]`  
stages a file or directory for pushing to central location
- `git diff [file]`  
shows changes that have been made locally
- `git commit -m '[descriptive message]'`  
attaches a message to changes you've staged
- `git push`  
sends your committed changes to the central repo

---

# common git commands 2/2

- `git pull`  
attempt to automagically retrieve and apply changes from the central repo to your machine
- `git merge`  
reconcile changes between your local repo and the central repo
- `git branch -b [branch name]`  
create a separate copy of the central repo for significant, extended changes
- `git checkout [branch name]`  
switch to a different branch / version
- `git checkout [file]`  
trash your local changes and replace it with what's on the central repo

---

# more on git

git is an exhaustive, mature, well supported system. There are many more features and workflows that we won't cover.

A special file called .gitignore is key when working with large projects. 3rd party libraries, caches, sensitive credential files, etc should not be committed to repos and can be excluded with a proper .gitignore file.

---

# commit messages and pushing

commit messages are brief descriptions of changes you've made to the central code. be **descriptive** and **to the point**.

what helps is to **push often** so your descriptions are naturally short. it is not uncommon to push a change that is only 10 lines of code. also keep commits limited in scope.

**only push working code**. there are some exceptions to this (eg if you're working on your own branch) but those are few and far between

---

# Other git resources

Official git cheatsheet:  
[https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf)

Code Academy lessons:  
[https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-git](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-git)

---

# Commit Your Own Adventure
## let's play a game

---

# git continued - feature branches

Feature branches are generally used when you want to make extensive edits / additions / deletions to the master code.

Feature branches should be **limited in scope** to reduce errors, increase ease to find bugs, and keep your team consistently up to date. Some examples of feature branches

- upload_videos
- user_defined_themes
- phone_number_validation

---

# git branch workflow

```
git checkout master
git checkout -b phone_number_verification
// make edits
// for each edit:
  git add -A
  git commit -m "explanation of changes"
  git push

// when feature is complete
git checkout master
// create pull request on Github
```

---

# git branch tips

`git branch` is your friend. It acts much like `git status`.

You might need to use the `--set-upstream` flag with `git push` for new branches. More generally, pay attention to error and status messages!

There is an alternative way to merge branches from the terminal. However, pull requests via Github are an industry standard and also offer other great features.

---

# Live Demo of using feature branches

---

# Committedly Stupid
## let's play a game

