# TTP Bootcamp 2022 Winter
## Session 9: React

---

# React

- Invented by a Facebook engineer in 2011 to build amazing UIs
- Blazing fast for users
- Fast and flexible for developers

---

# Syntax

React is a mix of JS and HTML.

To use HTML in JS, you can treat HTML tags as if they were variable values. For example:

```
const header = <h1>Lost Cat. Reward if Found!</h1>;
```

To use JS in HTML, you can wrap your JS code in `{}`. For example:

```
const name = 'Alexander Hamilton';
const nametag = <h1>{name}</h1>;
```

---

# Component Structure

- React breaks down everything into *components*, which are reusable pieces of code that handle one specific thing.
- Components are effectively a custom HTML tag. For example: `<LicensePlate>9999-XXXX</LicensePlate>`
- Like HTML tags, components can have children and attributes.
- Components can have closing tags or not. For example:
  - `<Alarm></Alarm>`
  - `<Alarm />`
- React components are JS functions that return HTML. The HTML portion, as we've seen, can have JS code in it and other React components

---

# Starting a new React Project

There's a built-command to create a ReactJS *boilerplate*. Boilerplates are essentially basic / stock code for you to build off of.

`npx create-react-app NAME_OF_REACTJS_APP`

Let's see what that does!

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# React Libraries

React also has libraries. It can take advantage node modules as well as React specific libraries. Here is the general format of how to use libraries in React:

```
import COMPONENT from 'LIBRARY_NAME';
import COMPONENT1, COMPONENT2 from 'LIBRARY_NAME';
import {COMPONENT} from 'LIBRARY_NAME';
import {COMPONENT1, COMPONENT2} from 'LIBRARY_NAME';
```

Whether you use `{}` or not depends on the exact library. The library's API should specify how to use it.

---

# Using Your Own Components

Your own components are treated pretty much like a library. The only difference is that you'll be using a *relative path* to your file.

---

# Adding interactivity

Since React is primarily JS, it's easy to add JS logic and interactivity. This is primary done with the `onClick` attribute. For example:

```
const sayHello = () => {alert('hello');}
return (
	<button onClick={sayHello}>click me</button>
)
```

---

# The class Attribute

Quick note: React is unable to use the `class` attribute. Instead, we should use the `className` attribute.

Simple as that.

---

# More Live Coding
